# Governance WG meeting 2020 March 12

## Discussion agenda

* Follow up on [the Project Group RFC](https://github.com/rust-lang/rfcs/pull/2856)
* Follow up on moving repositories (community, devtools, and nursery) into the [Rust-Lang GitHub Org](https://github.com/rust-lang/)
* Pre-RFC process
* How to manage RFC discussion
* Plan Agenda for Next time

## Discussion topic: Follow up on Project Group RFC

### Background material
* https://github.com/rust-lang/rfcs/pull/2856

### Discussion Summary
* Discussion around splitting into two RFCs
* Erin will be writing up her thoughts and splitting the two RFCs
* Conversation will continue asynchronously

## Discussion topic: Follow up on moving repos from community, devtools, and nursery into RustLang GH org
* progressing slowly

## Discussion topic: Pre-RFC process

### Background material
*  https://smallcultfollowing.com/babysteps/blog/2019/12/03/aic-improving-the-pre-rfc-process/

### Discussion summary
* widespread agreement that this is something that we need
* Possible procedure:
* someone has an idea
* then starts with an open issue and an internals thread
* if someone likes the idea or team wants to pick it up, "liason" would get involved in the discussion and work with the people pushing the idea
* could create a project group - but not required
* main idea - first step to opening an RFC is getting another team member on board who will work with you

* attempt to improve experience of navigating the RFC process as it can be very intimidating
* no sense in writing out a full RFC with confirming that someone on the team is interested in the idea
* should create project groups when warranted
* way of exposing capacity of team - ideally people should only do 2 or 3 things at a time
* Nell will write up RFC for pre-RFC process

## Discussion topic: How to manage RFC discussion

### Background material
* https://github.com/rust-lang/wg-governance/issues/38
* https://github.com/rust-lang/rfcs/issues/2850
* https://github.com/rust-lang/rfcs/issues/2873
* https://github.com/rust-lang/rfcs/pull/2836#issuecomment-594880970

### Discussion summary
* difficult to follow and especially to moderate long conversations on a PR - gets very unwieldy when there are hundreds of comments
* discussion thread on https://github.com/rust-lang/rfcs/issues/2873 because too long and painful
* summarized points of discussion, then opened new issue to continue discussion https://github.com/rust-lang/rfcs/issues/2873 
* intent was to refocus the discussion on the key outstanding points, but also avoid rehashing old arguments
* idea - when RFC thread gets to be >N comments, then is locked or closed by a bot
* then RFC shepherd is pinged to summarized that PR and open a new one
* question - how "neutral" should the summary be?
* neutrality may not be achievable, but we should be driving discussions to conclusions
* fine line between "shutting down" dissent and helping to provide clarity
* Niko attempted to provide summary here https://github.com/rust-lang/rfcs/pull/2836#issuecomment-594880970
* inclined to create a bot and allow individual RFCs or thread to "opt in" to try it for start
* Niko will write up guidelines for process

## Action items
* Nell will create pre-RFC RFC based on discussion
* Erin will write up thoughts on https://github.com/rust-lang/rfcs/pull/2836#issuecomment-594880970 and possibly split into two RFCs 
* Niko will write up guidelines for process to cap RFC comments at a certain number before requiring summarizing and opening of a new RFC

## Agenda for Next Meeting
* Domain WG Changes
* pre-RFC RFC if it is ready 